Sentry Token Validator spec (#4017)
dapr/docs: daprdocs/content/en/operations/security/mtls.md

<div class="embed-responsive embed-responsive-16by9">
<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube-nocookie.com/embed/Hkcx9kBDrAc?start=1400"></iframe>
</div>

> ### Sentry Token Validators

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Sentry service token validators
```

> 

Reviewer: Tokens are often used for authentication and authorization purposes. Token validators are components responsible for verifying the validity and authenticity of these tokens. For example in Kubernetes environments, a common approach to token validation is through the Kubernetes service account mechanism. This validator checks tokens against Kubernetes service accounts to ensure their legitimacy.

> Sentry can be configured to enable extra token validators beyond the Kubernetes bound Service Account validator, or replace the `insecure` validator enabled by default in self hosted mode.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Sentry can be configured to:
- Enable extra token validators beyond the Kubernetes-bound Service Account validator, or
- Replace the `insecure` validator enabled by default in self-hosted mode
```

> Sentry can be configured to enable extra token validators beyond the Kubernetes bound Service Account validator, or replace the `insecure` validator enabled by default in self hosted mode.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Sentry service can be configured to enable extra token validators beyond the Kubernetes bound Service Account validator, or replace the `insecure` validator enabled by default in self hosted mode.
```

> These are useful for joining extra non-Kubernetes clients to the Dapr cluster running in Kubernetes mode, or replacing the insecure "allow all" validator in self hosted mode to enable proper identity validation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can join extra non-Kubernetes clients to the Dapr cluster running in Kubernetes mode, or replace the insecure "allow all" validator in self-hosted mode to enable proper identity validation.
```

> The only token validator currently supported is the `jwks` validator.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> The only token validator currently supported is the `jwks` validator.
```

### JWKS

> The `jwks` validator enables Sentry to validate JWT tokens using a JWKS endpoint.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `jwks` validator enables Sentry service to validate JWT tokens using a JWKS endpoint.
```

The contents of the token _must_ contain the `sub` claim which matches the SPIFFE identity of the Dapr client, in the same Dapr format `spiffe://<trust-domain>/ns/<namespace>/<app-id>`.

> The audience of the token must by the SPIFFE ID of the Sentry identity, e.g. `spiffe://cluster.local/ns/dapr-system/dapr-sentry`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The audience of the token must by the SPIFFE ID of the Sentry identity. For example, `spiffe://cluster.local/ns/dapr-system/dapr-sentry`.
```

Other basic JWT rules regarding signature, expiry etc. apply.

The `jwks` validator can accept either a remote source to fetch the public key list or a static array for public keys.

> 

Reviewer: Can you add a description for the example. Something like
"The configuration example below shows..."

```yaml
kind: Configuration
apiVersion: dapr.io/v1alpha1
metadata:
  name: sentryconfig
spec:
  mtls:
    enabled: true
    tokenValidators:
      - name: jwks
        options:
          minRefreshInterval: 2m
          requestTimeout: 1m
          source: "https://localhost:1234/"
          caCertificate: "<optional ca certificate bundle string>"
```

> 

Reviewer: Same here for a description of this example.
